Speedial-Phoenix is the name of a game that does not yet exist, ideas float around however the purpose of this project is largely to learn how to use Godot. Before the end of this summer, May 2025 - August 2025, I want to have completed building 3 levels that can be navigated between within the game. Previously this was solely to learn, however I have since learned that I enjoy game development and learning game development. Since then, I have pivoted from a purely learning objective, to a game development objective. Currently, the Demo of Speedial Phoenix, aka this Repo, is reaching a point where it can eventually be published and be something I'm proud of. Below are updates that behave as a Dev log talking about what I have been up to and the state of the game. Also controls for anyone who forks the game currently so they can play it.

CONTROlS:
Movement       : WASD
Attack         : LMB
Extend Camera  : RMB
Pick Up Weapon : F
Drop Weapon    : Shift
ESC            : Pause
Finish Enemy   : Space

Major Update 1 (Jun 20th, 2025):
Major updates added, these are mainly for me to keep track of the project and remain motivated. The plan of 3 levels had left my mine but is now once again the goal. I have completed large portions of the absolutely necessary gameplay features, and the immediate ideas on my mind are enemy types (aka they hold different weapons) that drop their weapons on death. Following that I will likely implement a UI for starting and level select, unless something else pops into my mind after completing the enemy changes. As for the enemy overhaul, the pathfinding was completed much earlier than I thought it would, which inadverdantly made me comfortable enough to drop the project leading to the hiatus. Now that I have realised how incredibly rudimentary it was, I am more willing to learn further to reach whatever it is that I think is "real-game development". Major updates follow no schedule, and are less about the game and more for a game dev journal talking about the state of the game and it's developer. Stay tuned.

Major Update 2 (Jun 30th, 2025):
Change of plans to the original purpose. At first this whole project was made for the exclusive purpose of learning Godot. However, over the course of doing so I have found a love of game development and the very process of learning it. The purpose has evolved into a game demo production, with the final product being something I can proudly show the world. A couple of realizations have been made because of this, for one, Major Updates will one day be moved, somewhere. I would like my process to be public because of how hard it is to simply begin anything really, especially something like indie game development. I want my process and eventual completion to be public for other people like me to see that it is possible. Finally, graphics and audio do matter, and at the time of this update the graphics overhaul is still underway. I am expecting a late August release still, but am now very excited to make that a reality. Stay tuned.

Major Update 3 (July 31st, 2025):
As of tomorrow, I will have 1 full month to release the demo of Speedial Phoenix. The game has gone so far since day one where it was just an idea, and has turned into a full on passion project that I am more than proud to stamp my name on. While it may still be small, and full of indie dev fixes, I am confident in this first step onto the scene. I have learned so much in what I would call a short amount of time, and am so excited to see where this goes. Currently, what I had origianlly set out to do is complete. There are 3 full on levels, each better than the last. It plays like a real top down shooter, and feels like it has a heart put into it. As of right now, I have begun the first steps to publish, I have grabbed an itch.io account under the name floaty boat, my unofficial game dev studio that is entirely mine. I have also grabbed some social media handles, and have looked into what it means logistically to be a sole propietor. Over the next month, the game will see it's last changes for now as the 2025-2026 school year is getting ready to begin. During this month, all energy is going into finishing touches, bug fixing, and publishing. The game will be publishing within the window of August 25th - August 31st, and hopefully it will be welcomed with open arms. Stay tuned.
